Rework config instructions (#57)
LycheeOrg/LycheeOrg.github.io: docs/configuration.md

## Introduction

> Configuration is managed using a `.env` file. It probably exists already in your directory (Composer copies it from `.env.example` during installation), and you can go on with configuring there. But the file does not contain all options. Here, you can find all of them in a structured way and with instructions on how to use them. All of the options are optional, unless you would like to use some services.

Reviewer: I'm not in the headspace right now, but this needs tweaking.

Reviewer: Someone else should proofread this.
```suggestion
Lychee's core configuration is managed using a `.env` file. It probably exists already in your directory, but if not it can be created by copying `.env.example`. Most of the options are already included there, but this page contains a more complete list with descriptions and default values.
```
Doesn't Lychee fail to run without `APP_KEY`, making that one at least mandatory?

Reviewer: > If Composer runs correctly, it is set already.

If deleting it breaks things, that isn't optional.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @d7415, but I don't understand how the discussion is related to the referenced text. Neither the previous nor the suggested text says anything about configuration options which are optional. What am I missing here?

Reviewer: @nagmat84 In the original patch:
> All of the options are optional, unless you would like to use some services.

Reviewer 2: Silly me, it is in the previous text:

> **All of the options are optional,** unless you would like to use some services

Yes this is indeed a wrong statement. @d7415 is right. This does not only hold for `APP_KEY` but also the database configuration. Although Lychee comes with a sensible default and configures an SQLite file-based database, one database must always be configured. So this is not optional either.

@qwerty287 Is it possible that you wanted rather say something like this: "All advanced options which are listed here but are not explicitly included in the default `.env` file are optional unless you would like or are obliged to use the services they belong to."

Again this sentence needs tweaking, but I am not sure whether we want to says something like this at all. In the end, this is a tautology. Something is always optional unless it is required. For example, let's take the `TRUSTED_PROXY` variable. For 85% of the users this is probably an optional setting. 10% may use it voluntarily, because the like to have fancy setup for the sake of it. But there may also be 5% who must use this option ("are obliged to use it"), because their hoster enforces such a setup.

Reviewer 2: Here is another suggestion, during dinner I got an idea what @qwerty287 might have meant:

_Lychee's core configuration is managed using a `.env` file. It probably exists already in your directory, but if not it can be created by copying `.env.example`. The options which are already included in the `.env` file should be sufficient to cover the necessary configuration for the vast majority of all use-cases and setups. Using other options than those included in the `.env` file should rarely be necessary. However, this page contains a  more complete list of the available options, incl. some highly advanced ones, together with descriptions and default values._

Reviewer: That works, but feels very verbose.

Reviewer 2: @qwerty287 Please fix this, this seems to be the last open issue in the his PR. Maybe simply use my last suggestion. @d7415 already said that it works even though it is verbose. But at least it is correct in content.

### Base options

|Option|Description|Default|
|---|---|---|
|`APP_NAME`|The gallery name|`Lychee`|
|`APP_ENV`|Environment of your gallery, `production` or `development`|`production`|
|`APP_URL`|The URL of your gallery (which resolves to the `public/` folder)|`http://localhost`|
|`APP_KEY`|Your app key which is used for encryption (set during installation)|`null`|

> |`TIMEZONE`|The timezone of your photos|system timezone of server|

Reviewer: FWIW We include a *lot* more detail for this in the example file.

|`LYCHEE_UPLOADS`|Path to uploads directory|`uploads/` inside `public/`|
|`LYCHEE_UPLOADS_URL`|URL to uploads directory|`uploads/`|
|`TRUSTED_PROXIES`|Trusted proxy IP addresses|`null`|

### Database options

> Lychee supports MySQL/MariaDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL and Microsoft SQL Server as database backends. It's configuration is managed using the `DB_` variables.

Reviewer: I'm still not sure that we should consider MSSQL as "supported"...

> Lychee supports MySQL/MariaDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL and Microsoft SQL Server as database backends. It's configuration is managed using the `DB_` variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lychee supports MySQL/MariaDB, SQLite, PostgreSQL and Microsoft SQL Server as database backends. Its configuration is managed using the `DB_` variables.
```

|`DB_USERNAME`|Username of the database user|
|`DB_PASSWORD`|Password of the database user|
|`DB_SOCKET`|UNIX socket to DB server, replaces `DB_HOST` and `DP_PORT`|
|`MYSQL_ATTR_SSL_CA`|Optional and only used when using the `pdo_mysql` extension, file path to the SSL certificate authority|

#### SQLite

|Option|Value it should have|
|---|---|
|`DB_CONNECTION`|`sqlite`|
|`DB_DATABASE`|Path to the database file (default `database/database.sqlite`)|

#### PostgreSQL

|Option|Value it should have|
|---|---|
|`DB_CONNECTION`|`pgsql`|
|`DB_HOST`|Host of the database server (if it's running on the same server use `127.0.0.1`)|
|`DB_PORT`|Port of the database server (default 5432)|
|`DB_DATABASE`|The name of the database|
|`DB_USERNAME`|Username of the database user|
|`DB_PASSWORD`|Password of the database user|

#### Microsoft SQL Server

> {note} Microsoft SQL Server is not officially supported. It may work, but we can't help you if you have any issues with it that do not affect other DB systems as well.

|Option|Value it should have|
|---|---|
|`DB_CONNECTION`|`sqlsrv`|
|`DB_HOST`|Host of the database server (if it's running on the same server use `127.0.0.1`)|

> |`DB_PORT`|Port of the database server (default 5432)|

Reviewer 3: Are you sure it's the same port as for Postgres? A quick grep through `/etc/services` suggests it could be `1433`?

|`DB_DATABASE`|The name of the database|
|`DB_USERNAME`|Username of the database user|

> |`DB_PASSWORD`|Password of the database user|

Reviewer: This feels like a lot of duplication, but maybe it makes sense

Do unix sockets not work with postgres? They should.

Reviewer: No, apparently Laravel *is* that bad. connecting via unix sockets is possible, but looks messy and doesn't involve that setting.

Reviewer 2: Yes Laravel **is bad**. That what I am telling you guys since the dawn of time. 

Nonetheless, PostgreSQL works with socket. That is what I use for my systems, but you need a different syntax for it. Instead of using dedicated environment variables like `DB_SOCKET`, you write the socket connection string into `DB_HOST` like this

```
DB_CONNECTION=pgsql
DB_HOST=/var/run/postgresql
DB_PORT=null
```

There are two conditions: The string must start with a `/` such that Laravel recognizes it as a file system path to a socket. The path must only include the directory. Laravel automatically extends the socket file.

 Just another inconsistency of Laravel.

Reviewer: > Yes Laravel **is bad**.

Well, yeah.

> you write the socket connection string into `DB_HOST`

Ah, interesting. I thought the things I found were talking about setting `DB_HOST` to null. Maybe I remembered wrong and it was the port, or maybe that sets it to some default socket. I guess given the detail of the other instructions it would be worth including that information here.
